37) Personal – instrumental
You are the leader of a small group of soldiers. You are on your way back from a mission in enemy territory when one of your men steps in a trap that catches his leg, injuring him badly. You cannot free him without killing him, but if you leave him behind, enemy troops will torture him until he reveals the position of an important allied base camp. After that the soldiers will attack this camp and kill the 10 soldiers of the platoon there. The soldier begs you not to leave him behind, but the enemy troops are approaching and it is dangerous for you and your men to stay because you don’t have any more ammunition.

If you stab the soldier yourself you will impede that he’ll be tortured and reveal the information which leads to the death of the allied platoon. This will kill him, but you will save the ten soldiers of the platoon. 

Do you impede that the trapped soldier will be tortured by stabbing him to death, so he can’t reveal the location of the ten allied troop members?

38) Impersonal – Instrumental 
You are the leader of a small group of soldiers. You are on your way back from a mission in enemy territory when one of your men steps in a trap that catches his leg, injuring him badly. You cannot free him without killing him, but if you leave him behind, enemy troops will torture him until he reveals the position of an important allied base camp. After that the soldiers will attack this camp and kill the 10 soldiers of the platoon there. The soldier begs you not to leave him behind, but the enemy troops are approaching and it is dangerous for you and your men to stay because you don’t have more ammunition.

If you signalize the position of the trapped soldier with an illumination rocket, the region will be bombed. Thus, you will avoid that the soldier is tortured and reveals the information which will lead to the death of the allied troop. This will kill him, but you will save the ten soldiers of the allied platoon. 

Do you impede that the trapped soldier is tortured by ordering the bombing of that region, so he can’t reveal the location of the ten allied troop members?

39) Personal – instrumental 
You are on the night watch in a hospital. A chemical product has been spilled in a room with six patients. This chemical is highly toxic because once exposed to oxygen it evaporates and transforms into a poisonous gas which will kill all the patients in the room. You cannot wipe it away with conventional towels or wiping clothes. However, human skin absorbs it swiftly.

If you place one of the patients on the chemical you will prevent it from evaporating. This will kill this patient but you will save the other five patients in the room. 

Do you prevent the toxic evaporation placing one of the patients on the chemical, so the other five patients won’t be poisoned?

40) Impersonal – accidental  
You are on the night watch in a hospital. A chemical product has been spilled in a room with five patients. This chemical is highly toxic because once exposed to oxygen it evaporates and transforms into a poisonous gas which will kill all the patients in the room. You cannot wipe it away with conventional towels or wiping clothes. 

If you activate the ventilation system the poisonous gas will be taken out of the room. However, it will be transferred into a room upstairs with one patient, whom you won’t be able to evacuate in time. This will kill this patient, but you will save the other five.

Do you divert the gas out of the room by activating the ventilation system, causing it to be transferred to the room with one patient, so the other five patients won’t be poisoned?

41) Personal – instrumental
You are on a rowboat with a tour guide on a lake in Alaska. Nearby, three children have fallen off their boat and are in danger of freezing to death. You rescue the children, but one of them is very heavy and you realize that if you keep him on board your boat will sink and all will die. Neither you nor the guide can leave the boat because you are rowing and the guide is giving CPR to one of the children. 

If you throw the heavy child off the boat you will be able to reach the shore. This will kill this child, but you will save the other two.

Do you get rid of load by throwing that one child overboard, so you can reach the shore with the other two children?

42) Impersonal- accidental 
You are on a rowboat with a tour guide on a lake in Alaska. Nearby, three children have fallen off their boat and are in danger of freezing to death.  After you rescue two of the children, you realize that the weight of the third child would cause your boat to sink and all would die. Neither you nor the guide can leave the boat because you are rowing and the guide is giving CPR to one of the children. 

If you row to the shore leaving the third child behind in the water, you will prevent your boat from sinking. This will kill the child left behind, but you will save the other two.

Do you prevent your boat from sinking by leaving the third child behind, which will cause him to die, so that you can reach the shore with the other two children? 

43) Personal – instrumental 
You are a miner. The only way out of the mine is to ride up with a simple cable elevator with small cubicles. It is the end of your shift and everybody is riding up to the surface in the cubicles. While you are in the queue, you see that the cable supporting all the cubicles is about to snap. 10 miners are riding in the cubicles at this time.

If you knock over the last cubicle, the miner inside will fall down. In this way, you will reduce the load enough for the cable to resist breaking, and bring the other 10 miners to the exit. This will kill the miner in the cubicle you knock over, but you will save the other 10. 

Do you reduce weight by knocking over the cubicle with only one miner, so that the other ten miners will reach the exit?

44) Impersonal- instrumental  
You are a miner. The only way out of the mine is to ride up with a simple cable elevator with small cubicles. It is the end of your turn and everybody is riding up to the surface in the cubicles. While you are in the queue, you see that the cable supporting all the cubicles is about to snap. 10 miners are riding the cubicles at this time.

If you push an emergency switch the last cubicle will be detached from the cable.  This will reduce enough weight to maintain the cubicles of the other 10 miners. This will kill the miner in the detached cubicle, but it will save the other ten.
 
Do you reduce weight by pushing the emergency switch which detaches the last cubicle, so that the other ten miners can reach the exit? 

45) Personal – accidental 
You are an electrician hired to fix an electrical problem in the home of a very wealthy tycoon who is terminally ill of cancer. Recently, it has been announced that upon his death, his enormous fortune will be donated to the local children’s hospital. You know that there are 109 children at this hospital who could be saved with this money, but who cannot wait much longer before they die. 

If you suffocate the tycoon while he is sleeping by covering his nose and mouth with your gloved hands, this essential donation for the children will arrive in time. This will kill the tycoon, but you will save the lives of 109 children. 

Do you speed the donation by suffocating this man, so that the donation will get to the 109 ill children in time? 

46) Impersonal-Instrumental
You are an electrician hired to fix an electrical problem in the home of a very wealthy tycoon who is terminally ill of cancer. Recently, it has been announced that upon his death, his enormous fortune will be donated to the local children’s hospital. You know that there are 112 children at this hospital who could be saved with this money, but who cannot wait much longer before they die. 

If you short-circuit the cables instead of fixing the problem, the tycoon’s life support equipment will fail and this essential donation for the children will arrive in time. This will kill the tycoon, but you will save the lives of 112 children. 

Do you anticipate the donation by causing the tycoon’s life support equipment to fail, so that the donation gets to the 112 ill children in time? 

47) Personal – instrumental  
You are a military officer during a war. Your soldiers have found an important enemy spy trapped and injured in a collapsed building. Over the radio you have been informed that enemy soldiers are planning a surprise attack on a nearby town, but you don’t know which. They will kill thousands of civilians if you and your soldiers do not stop them. The spy knows which town will be attacked. You have questioned him but he doesn’t want to tell you. He won’t survive much longer due to his injuries. 

If you torture the spy, he will reveal the information about the town. The torture will kill him, but you will save thousands of civilians. 

Do you make the spy reveal the information by torturing him, so you can prevent the attack on thousands of civilians?

48) Impersonal-Instrumental
You are a military officer during a war. Your soldiers have found an important enemy spy trapped and injured in a collapsed building. Over the radio you have been informed that enemy soldiers are planning a surprise attack on a nearby town, but you don’t know which. They will kill thousands of civilians if you and your soldiers do not stop them. The spy knows which town will be attacked. You have questioned him but he doesn’t want to tell you. He won’t survive much longer due to his injuries. Rats have begun to chew his legs and he is suffering a lot.

If you let the rats continue with this torture the spy will reveal the information about the town. The torture will kill him, but you will save thousands of civilians. 

Do you make the spy reveal the information by letting the rats continue to torture him, so that you can prevent the attack on the thousands of civilians?